Copyright © 2011 Bart Massey

Welcome to TinyForge!
Bart Massey <bart@cs.pdx.edu>

TinyForge is a couple of tiny shell scripts etc that I use
to maintain my "personal forge", BartForge
(http://wiki.cs.pdx.edu/bartforge). My personal forge
currently contains about 50 small software projects, posted
over the last three years but created over a much longer
interval.

TinyForge is built around Git (http://git-scm.com), ikiwiki
(http://ikiwiki.info) and SQLite 3 (http://www.sqlite.org/),
so you'll need these installed for any hope of success. The
forge software consists of a shell script, newentry, that
you run to add new entries; this script calls another
script, genindices, to make index pages for your forge. (The
scripts are written in Bourne shell with the exception of
shell functions, so they should be pretty portable.) You can
also call genindices manually: for example, if you have made
database changes that need to be reflected in index changes,
or if you have made a change to the index-top.

To start your forge, set up a Git-based ikiwiki site for it,
git clone that site to a convenient directory, and cd there.
You will want to make your ikiwiki directory different from
the TinyForge software directory containing this README, so
that they can have separate Git repositories.

Now run

  sqlite3 forge.db <$TINYFORGEPATH/initdb.sql

where TINYFORGEPATH is (obviously) the path to the TinyForge
source directory, where the initdb file lives.  You now have
an empty database. Run

  git add forge.db; git commit

to commit the database.

Next, go back to the TinyForge source directory, and edit
forge.conf to have the FORGEPATH variable set to the path to
the ikiwiki directory and the FORGENAME variable set to the
name of the forge. Copy index-top.mdwn into the ikiwiki
directory and edit it to your taste; you'll probably want to
git commit it also.

You are now ready to create your first TinyForge
entry. Pick a lowercase name with no spaces to act as the
"internal name" for your project. Copy the file
template.mdwn in the TinyForge source to intname.mdwn in
the ikiwiki directory, and edit it to taste. (You need not
do anything with Git at this point, or ever again:
TinyForge will manage this for you.)

Finally, run ./newentry from the TinyForge source directory
with the appropriate arguments. newentry --help will give a
synopsis.  The arguments are:

  <intname>:  The internal name of the package as described above

  <category>: The category name of the package. The list of
              categories can be obtained via newentry --help
              category .

  <visname>:  The "visible name" of the package will be used
              in most instances for presentation to the
              reader.

  <language>: The programming language of the package. The
              list of languages can be obtained via newentry
              --help language .

  langdetail: An optional descriptive string giving more detail
              about the programming languages used.

  attrib:     An optional descriptive string giving extra
              authorship information for projects that you
	      did not author, or did not solely author, but
	      are nonetheless in your forge.

Note that these strings aren't database-sanitized at all, so
characters such as single-quote or double-quote will likely
break things. Don't be too clever, please.

Once you have finished, upon visiting your ikiwiki site you
should find that you have a personal forge with a single
entry.  Congratulations!

You will likely find that the languages and categories
provided by the initial TinyForge setup are not to your
taste. It is relatively straightforward to tweak forge.db
from the sqlite3 command line to add or delete these. The
main forge information is stored in a table named master,
and the languages and categories are in tables named
languages and categories respectively.  Be careful not to
remove a language or category that is in use. TinyForge
currently doesn't use foreign key constraints, so it won't
protect you from screwing up.  Also, note that the languages
and categories are sorted in their respective index by category
number, not category name. This is considered minorly a feature,
but it's easy to fix in the genindices script if it's bugging you.
